FOCUS #2183: Adding Development Process Supporting Content - FOCUS 1.5 Operating Model Augmentation Discussion (#2357)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: supporting_content/guidelines/contributors/development-processes.md

1. A Pull Request (PR) must be issued for the feature.
2. At least one Maintainer (who is not the original author) must approve the PR.
3. The PR can then be formally discussed in TF-1, TF-2, or TF-RM, to be assigned at the discretion of the WG Chair.

This is appropriate for mature, well-formed contributions. However, it does not provide a path for emerging ideas that are well-structured but not yet ready for specification PR formalization.

#### Proposed Change

TF consideration can be initiated from two sources:

**Specification-Based Entry (Existing — as defined in Scope Proposal Section 5):**

* Fully formed specification PR
* Subject to formal review and approval process
* At least one Maintainer approval required

**Supporting Content-Based Entry (Proposed Extension):**

* Based on well-formed Supporting Content artifact
* Can originate from `/supporting_content` in the repository or from Google Drive
* Eligible for TF consideration prior to specification PR creation

#### Impact

* Earlier signal of emerging ideas
* Reduced specification PR overhead for discovery and alignment
* Improved filtering before formal specification work begins

> #### Key Principle
> 
> This is a material change to the intake process defined in the Scope Proposal. Specification-Based Entry remains the path to formal specification. Supporting Content-Based Entry provides a structured alternative for early-stage work that is not yet ready for specification PR formalization but has sufficient substance for TF evaluation.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### 3. SME Contribution Path
> 
> #### Problem Being Addressed
> 
> Guideline complexity increases friction. AI capability is uneven across contributors. GitHub-based workflows can be a barrier for SMEs. The widening gap between domain practitioners and normative/requirements model authoring work — raised by Sanjna and Irena in TF3 — makes it hard for FinOps contributors to engage without feeling buried in process.
> 
> #### Proposed Change
> 
> Contributors can engage through multiple paths without requiring immediate specification-level participation:
> 
> * Task Force discussion and evaluation
> * Supporting Content creation (GitHub `/supporting_content` or Google Drive)
> * GitHub comments on PRs
> * Specification PR authoring (content under `/specification` or `/guidelines`)
> 
> #### Impact
> 
> * Lowers entry barriers for contributors
> * Avoids forcing early specification-level compliance
> * Preserves SME participation and domain expertise
> 
> #### Relationship to Scope Proposal
> 
> The Scope Proposal Section 3 describes the Open Forum as a space where "Working group members can bring and discuss whatever they wish." The SME Contribution Path formalizes structured ways to contribute between the Open Forum and the specification-based Champion Scope intake, without requiring specification-level participation as a starting point.

Author: ```suggestion
#### Proposed Change

Contributors can engage at two levels, both of which require basic interaction with GitHub:

**Low-friction contribution paths** — do not require familiarity with specification structure, editorial guidelines, requirements authoring guidelines, or requirements-model expectations:

* Task Force discussion and evaluation
* Supporting Content creation (GitHub `/supporting_content` or Google Drive)
* GitHub comments on PRs

**Specification-level contribution paths** — require familiarity with the above:

* Specification PR authoring (content under `/specification` or `/guidelines`)

Low-friction paths are not preliminary steps toward specification authoring. They are valued contribution modes in their own right. Contributors who engage exclusively through low-friction paths are making meaningful contributions to the development of the specification.

#### Impact

* Lowers entry barriers for contributors with domain expertise
* Preserves SME participation without requiring specification-level compliance as a starting point

#### Key Principle

Basic GitHub interaction is required across all paths. The distinction is not between GitHub and non-GitHub contribution, but between contribution that requires specification-level editorial and structural knowledge and contribution that does not.

Low-friction contribution paths include the ability to initiate TF consideration via the **Supporting Content-Based Entry** (see *2. Champion Scope Intake*), without requiring a specification-level Pull Request.

#### Relationship to Scope Proposal

The Scope Proposal Section 3 describes the Open Forum as a space where "Working group members can bring and discuss whatever they wish." The SME Contribution Path formalizes structured ways to contribute between the Open Forum and the specification-based Champion Scope intake, without requiring specification-level participation as a starting point.

```
